.TH PULSE 1 "April 2026" "pulse 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pulse \- macOS health monitor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pulse
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pulse
monitors the health of your Mac across CPU, memory, disk, thermals, battery,
and runaway processes. It computes a single health score from 0 to 100 and
stores snapshots in a local SQLite database for longitudinal tracking.
.PP
Written in pure Swift with zero external dependencies.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR status ", " s
System health dashboard with gauges and top processes. This is the default
command when
.B pulse
is invoked with no arguments.
.TP
.BR score
Composite health score with a detailed breakdown of every deduction.
.TP
.BR hot ", " h
Find resource\-heavy processes (CPU hogs, memory hogs, swap pressure).
.TP
.BR clean ", " c
Scan for cleanup opportunities in caches, logs, old downloads, and trash.
Dry run by default; use
.B \-\-confirm
for interactive deletion with per\-item confirmation.
.TP
.BR log ", " l
Record a health snapshot to the SQLite database at
.IR ~/.pulse/health.db .
.TP
.BR history ", " hist
View health trends with sparkline charts in the terminal.
.TP
.BR net ", " n
Network overview and monitoring. See
.B NET SUBCOMMANDS
below.
.TP
.BR bt ", " bluetooth
Bluetooth devices and status.
.TP
.BR trend ", " trends
Predictive trend analysis from historical snapshots.
.TP
.BR diff ", " compare
Compare current system state versus N days ago.
.TP
.BR apps ", " profile
App energy profiling showing CPU\-hours and efficiency grades.
.TP
.BR changelog ", " changes
System changelog tracking app installs, updates, and removals.
.TP
.BR watch ", " w
Live\-updating terminal dashboard (refreshes every 2 seconds by default).
.TP
.BR archive
Database maintenance: stats, archiving old data, vacuuming, and JSON export.
.TP
.BR help
Show usage information.
.TP
.BR version
Print version and exit.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output as JSON. Supported by: status, score, net, bt, trend, diff, apps.
.TP
.B \-\-help\fR, \fB\-h
Show help.
.TP
.B \-\-version\fR, \fB\-v
Show version.
.SH LOG OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-info
Show database path, snapshot count, and time range.
.TP
.B \-\-prune
Remove snapshots older than 30 days.
.SH HISTORY OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-1h\fR, \fB\-\-6h\fR, \fB\-\-12h\fR, \fB\-\-7d
Time window shortcuts.
.TP
.B \-\-hours \fIN\fR
Custom time window in hours.
.SH NET SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.BR overview
Network overview with topology (default).
.TP
.BR topology ", " topo
Detailed network map and device layout.
.TP
.BR bandwidth ", " bw
Throughput and per\-service bandwidth chart.
.TP
.BR connections ", " conn
Active TCP connections.
.TP
.BR services ", " svc
Connections grouped by service type.
.TP
.BR home ", " devices
Devices on the home network from the ARP table.
.TP
.BR wifi ", " signal
WiFi signal diagnostics (RSSI, noise floor, SNR, channel, PHY mode).
.TP
.BR speed
Live throughput monitor.
.SH DIFF OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-1d\fR, \fB\-\-7d\fR, \fB\-\-30d
Time period to compare against (default: 7d).
.SH APPS OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-1d\fR, \fB\-\-7d\fR, \fB\-\-30d
Time period for profiling (default: 7d).
.SH CHANGELOG SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.BR scan
Scan now and record changes.
.TP
.B \-\-30d
Show changes from the last 30 days.
.SH ARCHIVE SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.BR run
Archive old data and vacuum.
.TP
.BR export
Export recent data as JSON.
.TP
.BR stats
Detailed database statistics.
.SH WATCH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-i \fIN\fR
Refresh interval in seconds (default: 2).
.SH CLEAN OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-confirm
Actually delete with per\-item confirmation. Items over 1\ GB trigger a
second confirmation. Type
.B yes
(not just
.BR y )
to confirm each deletion. Type
.B quit
to stop.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.pulse/health.db
SQLite database storing health snapshots, top processes, and network device
sightings.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
pulse                  # system health dashboard (default)
pulse score --json     # health score as JSON
pulse hot              # find resource-heavy processes
pulse clean --confirm  # interactive cleanup
pulse log              # record snapshot
pulse history --7d     # 7-day trend sparklines
pulse net wifi         # WiFi signal diagnostics
pulse watch -i 5       # live dashboard, 5s refresh
pulse trend            # predictive analysis
.fi
.SH REQUIREMENTS
macOS 14.0 (Sonoma) or later. Apple Silicon or Intel.
.SH AUTHORS
IvoryHeart
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR top (1),
.BR vm_stat (1),
.BR sysctl (8),
.BR pmset (1)
